Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Displays journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/displa Bridge the gap between practical application scenarios and cartoon character detection: A benchmark dataset and deep learning model✩ Zelu Qi, Da Pan, Tianyi Niu, Zefeng Ying, Ping Shi∗ School of Information and Communication Engineering, Communication University of China, China A R T I C L E I N F O Keywords: Cartoon character detection Image annotation Data Augmentation Convolutional neural network Vision TransformerA B S T R A C T The success of deep learning in the field of computer vision makes cartoon character detection (CCD) based on target detection expected to become an effective means of protecting intellectual property rights. However, due to the lack of suitable cartoon character datasets, CCD is still a less explored field, and there are still many problems that need to be solved to meet the needs of practical applications such as merchandise, advertising, and patent review. In this paper, we propose a new challenging CCD benchmark dataset, called CCDaS, which consists of 140,339 images of 524 famous cartoon characters from 227 cartoon works, game works, and merchandise innovations. As far as we know, CCDaS is currently the largest dataset of CCD in practical application scenarios. To further study CCD, we also provide a CCD algorithm that can achieve accurate detection of multi-scale objects and facially similar objects in practical application scenarios, called multi-path YOLO (MP-YOLO). Experimental results show that our MP-YOLO achieves better detection results on the CCDaS dataset. Comparative and ablation studies further validate the effectiveness of our CCD dataset and algorithm. 1. Introduction Cartoon character detection is one of the important issues in anima- tion industry which often suffers from infringements. By posting car- toon characters to products without the authors authorization, illegal merchants made substantial profits and seriously infringed the patent rights. Focusing on intellectual property protection, the implementa- tion of cartoon character detection algorithms holds the potential to both prevent intellectual property infringement and enhance protection capabilities in the digital age. In the current research about cartoon character detection, deep learning-based algorithms driven by large-scale datasets have exhib- ited impressive